The "analytics" database models a web analytics platform that tracks how users
interact with a website.  It contains four tables: events, users, sessions, and
products.  Together they support queries about traffic patterns, user behavior,
conversion funnels, and product performance.


Events
------

The events table is the core fact table.  Every time a visitor loads a page,
clicks a button, makes a purchase, signs up, or logs out, a row is written to
this table.  Each event is assigned a unique UUID and stamped with a
millisecond-precision timestamp.  Events belong to a session (identified by
session_id) and may optionally be linked to a registered user via user_id; when
the visitor is anonymous, user_id is NULL.

The event_type column is an enumeration with five allowed values: page_view,
click, purchase, signup, and logout.  Contextual information such as the page
URL, HTTP referrer, device type, browser, operating system, country, and city
are recorded for every event.  A flexible properties column stored as a map of
string keys to string values captures arbitrary metadata specific to each event
type -- for example, a click event might include {"button_id": "cta_1",
"page_section": "header"}, while a purchase event might include
{"product_id": "42", "quantity": "2"}.  The duration_ms column records how long
the user was on the page before the event fired, and is_bounce flags events
that were the sole interaction in their session.

The table is ordered by (event_type, timestamp) for efficient filtering by
event category within time ranges, and partitioned by month to accelerate
time-bounded scans.


Users
-----

The users table holds one row per registered user.  Each user has a unique
numeric user_id, an email address, a display name, and a signup date.  The plan
column captures the user's current subscription tier as an enumeration: free,
starter, pro, or enterprise.

Users are associated with a country code.  A tags column stored as an array of
strings holds flexible labels such as "premium", "early_adopter", or
"newsletter".  The lifetime_value column is a high-precision decimal tracking
the total revenue in USD attributed to the user across all purchases.  The
last_active timestamp records the most recent user activity, and a preferences
map stores key-value settings like {"theme": "dark", "language": "en",
"timezone": "America/New_York"}.


Sessions
--------

The sessions table aggregates related events into browsing sessions.  Each row
captures a contiguous period of activity from a single device.  A session has a
unique string identifier, an optional user_id (NULL for anonymous visitors),
and millisecond-precision start and end timestamps.

Derived metrics include duration_seconds (total time from first to last event)
and page_count (number of distinct pages viewed).  Device characteristics --
device_type, browser, os, and country -- are denormalized from the first event
in the session for query convenience.  The entry_page and exit_page columns
record the first and last URLs visited.

Marketing attribution is captured through three nullable UTM columns:
utm_source, utm_medium, and utm_campaign.  These are populated only when the
visitor arrived through a tracked link.  The is_converted flag indicates whether
the session included at least one purchase event.


Products
--------

The products table is a catalog of items available for purchase.  Each product
has a unique numeric identifier, a display name, a top-level category (e.g.,
"Electronics", "Clothing"), and a more specific subcategory (e.g.,
"Smartphones", "Jackets").  Pricing is stored as a decimal value in USD.

A tags array holds descriptive labels such as "bestseller", "new_arrival", or
"sale" used for merchandising and search filtering.  The created_at timestamp
records when the product was first listed, and is_active indicates whether it
is currently available for purchase.  Aggregate review data is stored in rating
(average score from 0.0 to 5.0) and review_count (total number of reviews).


Relationships
-------------

Events reference sessions via session_id (many events per session) and may
reference users via user_id (many events per user, nullable).  Sessions
similarly reference users via user_id (many sessions per user, nullable).
Purchase events reference products through the properties map (the key
"product_id" contains the product identifier as a string).

These relationships enable common analytical queries such as: computing
conversion rates per UTM campaign, calculating average session duration by
device type, identifying top-revenue users by plan tier, and analyzing product
performance across geographic regions.
